The reactions here are to be moved eventually into reactions.py








Free-radical hydrohalogenation
Candidate reactants: alkenes
HBr cat ROOR, hv or heat
Adds the X to the anti-Markovnikov-most carbon in the alkene, and the H to the other one. Neither syn nor anti.

Epoxidation
Candidate reactants: alkenes
mCPBA or PhCO3H or RCO3H, in CH2Cl2
Converts alkene bond to an epoxide. Two possible stereochemical outcomes (up-epoxide or down-epoxide)

Hydrogenation
Candidate reactants: alkenes, alkynes
H2 cat Pd|C in EtOH
Syn addition of an H to each atom in the alkene or alkyne. Go all the way to single bond.

Hydration
Candidate reactants: alkenes
H2SO4 (or other acid) in ROH, where R can also be H
If alkene: Adds an OR to the Markovnikov carbon of the alkene, and an H to the anti-Markovnikov carbon. Neither syn nor anti, since carbocation.
If alkyne and H2O: Form a ketone or aldehyde, placing the O at the Markovnikov carbon.
If alkyne and ROH: I'm not sure. Forms some strange enolate-ester? Possibly best to leave this out?

Halohydration
Candidate reactants: alkenes
X2 in ROH, where R can also be H
Adds an OR to the Markovnikov carbon of the alkene, and an X to the anti-Markovnikov carbon. Anti.

Hydroboration
Candidate reactants: alkenes
BH3 in THF, then NaOH and H2O2
If alkene: Adds an OH to the anti-Markovnikov carbon, then adds an H to the other one. Syn addition.
If alkyne: Form a ketone or aldehyde, placing the O at the anti-Markovnikov carbon.

Dihydroxylation (Upjohn dihydroxylation)
Candidate reactants: alkenes
cat. OsO4 in NMO and acetone or H2O
Syn addition of two OH groups to each carbon.

Ozonolysis
Candidate reactants: alkenes
O3 in CH2Cl2, with Me2S or Zn
Adds two oxygens, splitting alkene bond, producing carbonyls.

Lindlar reduction
Candidate reactants: alkynes
H2, cat. Lindlar
Produces the cis alkene from an alkyne. Adds two Hs.

Sodium-ammonia reduction
Candidate reactants: alkynes
Na, in NH3 (L)
Produces the trans alkene from an alkyne. Adds two Hs.

Alkyne deprotonation to acetylide
Candidate reactants: alkynes, in which one end is an H
NaNH2 in NH3
Produces an acetylide ion. Removes the H+, resulting in a negative charge.

Acetylide addition
Reactants: one acetylide ion, one molecule of the form R-CH2-Br or R-CH2-I
No additional reagents needed (can drag one molecule onto the other?)
Get rid of the X in R-CH2-X.  Attach the bare negative end of the acetylide (R-C#Cminus) to the R-CH2-. The result should look like R-CH2-C#C-R".

Free-radical halogenation
Candidate reactants: alkanes
X2 in CH2Cl2, hv
Add halogen atoms basically at random to the carbon skeleton of an alkane.
Note that if X is Br, it will be added almost exclusively to more-substituted carbons, whereas if X is Cl, it will be added around equally among carbons. This due to a bit of thermodynamic trickery.

Sn1, E1, Sn2, E2, E1cB: figure out later

Conversion of alcohol to leaving group
Candidate reactants: hydroxyl groups
MsCl or TsCl or TfCl, in pyridine
Adds Ms or Ts or Tf to the hydroxyl group, replacing the hydroxyl group's H. (OH goes to OMs.)



Chloride from hydroxyl
Candidate reactants: hydroxyl group attached to alkaney carbon
SOCl2
Replace hydroxyl with Cl. Flip stereochemistry.

Bromide from hydroxyl
Candidate reactants: hydroxyl group attached to alkaney carbon
PBr3
Replace hydroxyl with Br. Flip stereochemistry.

Iodide from hydroxyl
Candidate reactants: hydroxyl group attached to alkaney carbon
P, I2
Replace hydroxyl with I. Flip stereochemistry.

Alkene from hydroxyl
Candidate reactants: hydroxyl group attached to alkaney carbon
POCl2 in pyridine
Remove OH and produce a double bond touching the carbon the OH was attached to. Probably follows Zaitsev's rule: produce the more substituted alkene.